# Licensing of generated models

One consideration modellers who have generated open models using a LLM will need to tackle is the choice of an open license.  Licenses typically fall into two types: permissive (e.g. the MIT, or BSD-2) or copyleft (e.g. GPL 2.0 or GPL 3.0). Permissive licenses allow code to be reused, adapted and redistributed in any format or setting.  Copyleft licenses require derivative code or projects that redistribute the code to be licenced in the same way.  As an example consider the stroke model we develop here.  If the model were MIT licensed then other modellers could copy paste sections of the code or the full model, and adapt it, into their own code. they could then choose any license to release their code.  If the model were made available under GPL 2.0 and the modeller copy pasted the code and redistributed it then they would be required to use the same GPL-2.0 license.

This distinction between permissive and copyleft licenses poses a challenge for modellers generating code using LLMs.  This is because LLMs are trained on code available online. The exact data used by AI companies such as Open.AI is unknown, and the training may not distinguish between code license type.  Overfitting on training data can mean that LLMs simply output existing code used in training (that may have nothing to do with the simulation study, but still useful for the task at hand). At the time of writing this is an emerging controversial area, with no case law, and may in fact count as copy pasting and redistributing code. A modeller will have no concrete knowledge of a.) if the code is original or a copy; b.) the original license terms (specifically if it is copyleft) if copied.  There is no idea solution here and for the moment modellers will have make their own judgement. For now, one option is to adopt a license preferred by the target community. In the python data science ecosystem code is often made available under an permissive license (e.g. scikit-learn, pandas, numpy, simpy, ciw, salabim). For our generated models we have taken this position and made the code available under an MIT license.